## CNE.3 - Name of Coding System (ID)

The third component contains the code for the name of the coding system from which the value in _CNE.1_ is obtained. Refer to file:///E:\V2\v2.9%20final%20Nov%20from%20Frank\V29_CH02C_Tables.docx#HL70396[HL7 Table 0396 - Coding Systems] in Chapter 2C, Code Tables, for valid values. Each coding system is assigned a unique identifier.

As of v2.7 this component is required when _CNE.1_ is populated and _CNE.14_ is not populated. Both _CNE.3_ and _CNE.14_ may be populated. Receivers should not identify a code based on its position within the tuples (Identifier, Alternate Identifier, or Second Alternate Identifier) or position within a repeating field. Instead, the receiver should always examine the codingSystem as specified in _CNE.3_ and/or _CNE.14_ the Coding System component or the Coding System OID for the tuple.The combination of the **identifier** and **name of coding system** represent a unique concept for a data item.

Some organizations that publish code sets author more than one. The coding system, then, to be unique, is a concatenation of the name of the coding authority organization and the name of its code set or table. When an HL7 table is used for a CNE data type, the **_name of coding system_** component is defined as **_HL7nnnn_** where **_nnnn_** is the HL7 table number. Similarly, ISO tables will be named ISOnnnn, where nnnn is the ISO table number.

**Usage Note: The following statement is retained for backward compatibility as of v2.7.** Best practice would recommend that this component always be populated. However, if the field narrative explicitly states "_Refer to HL7 Table nnnn for valid values_”, and, if the sending and receiving systems are HL7 compliant, the coding system would be known from the standard. This would be similar to a field with an ID data type, except that there is a second triplet in which to express an alternate code.
